---
title: "Multibeam element-based backlight and display using same"
docType: patent
url: https://patents.google.com/patent/US10838134/en
scraped_at: "2025-09-26T20:06:25.765Z"
word_count: 10213
extraction_quality: high
patentNo: US10838134B2
inventors:
  - name: David A. Fattal
    affiliation: Mountain View, CA (US)
  - name: Ming Ma
    affiliation: Palo Alto, CA (US)
  - name: Xuejian Li
    affiliation: Menlo Park, CA (US)
assignees:
  - name: LEIA INC.
    affiliation: Menlo Park, CA (US)
filedDate: "2018-06-16"
technologies: ["optical systems", "display technology", "lightfield", "viewing angle"]
concepts: ["intellectual property", "patent", "prior art", "inventions"]
document_source: ["USPTO"]
---
## Abstract
A multiview backlight and a multiview display employ multibeam elements configured to provide a plurality of light beams having different principal angular directions corresponding to different view directions of the multiview display. The display includes multiview pixels that include sub-pixels. A size of the multibeam element is comparable to a size of a sub-pixel in a multiview pixel of the multiview display.

## Background
Electronic displays are a nearly ubiquitous medium for communicating information to users of a wide variety of devices and products. Most commonly employed electronic displays include the cathode ray tube (CRT), plasma display panels (PDP), liquid crystal displays (LCD), electroluminescent displays (EL), organic light emitting diode (OLED) and active matrix OLEDs (AMOLED) displays, electrophoretic displays (EP) and various displays that employ electromechanical or electrofluidic light modulation (e.g., digital micromirror devices, electrowetting displays, etc.). Generally, electronic displays may be categorized as either active displays (i.e., displays that emit light) or passive displays (i.e., displays that modulate light provided by another source). Among the most obvious examples of active displays are CRTs, PDPs and OLEDs/AMOLEDs. Displays that are typically classified as passive when considering emitted light are LCDs and EP displays. Passive displays, while often exhibiting attractive performance characteristics including, but not limited to, inherently low power consumption, may find somewhat limited use in many practical applications given the lack of an ability to emit light. To overcome the limitations of passive displays associated with emitted light, many passive displays are coupled to an external light source. The coupled light source may allow these otherwise passive displays to emit light and function substantially as an active display. Examples of such coupled light sources are backlights. A backlight may serve as a source of light (often a panel backlight) that is placed behind an otherwise passive display to illuminate the passive display. For example, a backlight may be coupled to an LCD or an EP display. The backlight emits light that passes through the LCD or the EP display. The light emitted is modulated by the LCD or the EP display and the modulated light is then emitted, in turn, from the LCD or the EP display. Often backlights are configured to emit white light. Color filters are then used to transform the white light into various colors used in the display. The color filters may be placed at an output of the LCD or the EP display (less common) or between the backlight and the LCD or the EP display, for example.

## Detailed Description
Examples and embodiments in accordance with the principles described herein provide a multiview or three-dimensional (3D) display and a multiview backlight with application to the multiview display. In particular, embodiments consistent with the principles described herein provide a multiview backlight employing multibeam elements configured to provide light beams having a plurality of different principal angular directions. Further, according to various embodiments, the multibeam elements are sized relative to sub-pixels of a multiview pixel in a multiview display, and may also be spaced apart from one another in a manner corresponding to a spacing of multiview pixels in the multiview display. According to various embodiments, the different principal angular directions of the light beams provided by the multibeam elements of the multiview backlight correspond to different directions of various different views of the multiview display, according to various embodiments.

Herein, a 'multiview display' is defined as an electronic display or display system configured to provide different views of a multiview image in different view directions. FIG. 1A illustrates a perspective view of a multiview display 10 in an example, according to an embodiment consistent with the principles described herein. As illustrated in FIG. 1A, the multiview display 10 comprises a screen 12 to display a multiview image to be viewed. The multiview display 10 provides different views 14 of the multiview image in different view directions 16 relative to the screen 12. The view directions 16 are illustrated as arrows extending from the screen 12 in various different principal angular directions; the different views 14 are illustrated as shaded polygonal boxes at the termination of the arrows (i.e., depicting the view directions 16); and only four views 14 and four view directions 16 are illustrated, all by way of example and not limitation. Note that while the different views 14 are illustrated in FIG. 1A as being above the screen, the views 14 actually appear on or in a vicinity of the screen 12 when the multiview image is displayed on the multiview display 10. Depicting the views 14 above the screen 12 is only for simplicity of illustration and is meant to represent viewing the multiview display 10 from a respective one of the view directions 16 corresponding to a particular view 14.

A 'multiview pixel' is defined herein as a set of sub-pixels representing 'view' pixels in each of a similar plurality of different views of a multiview display. In particular, a multiview pixel may have an individual sub-pixel corresponding to or representing a view pixel in each of the different views of the multiview image. Moreover, the sub-pixels of the multiview pixel are so-called 'directional pixels' in that each of the sub-pixels is associated with a predetermined view direction of a corresponding one of the different views, by definition herein. Further, according to various examples and embodiments, the different view pixels represented by the sub-pixels of a multiview pixel may have equivalent or at least substantially similar locations or coordinates in each of the different views. For example, a first multiview pixel may have individual sub-pixels corresponding to view pixels located at {x1, y1} in each of the different views of a multiview image, while a second multiview pixel may have individual sub-pixels corresponding to view pixels located at {x2, y2} in each of the different views, and so on.

Herein, a 'light guide' is defined as a structure that guides light within the structure using total internal reflection. In particular, the light guide may include a core that is substantially transparent at an operational wavelength of the light guide. In various examples, the term 'light guide' generally refers to a dielectric optical waveguide that employs total internal reflection to guide light at an interface between a dielectric material of the light guide and a material or medium that surrounds that light guide. By definition, a condition for total internal reflection is that a refractive index of the light guide is greater than a refractive index of a surrounding medium adjacent to a surface of the light guide material. In some embodiments, the light guide may include a coating in addition to or instead of the aforementioned refractive index difference to further facilitate the total internal reflection. The coating may be a reflective coating, for example. The light guide may be any of several light guides including, but not limited to, one or both of a plate or slab guide and a strip guide.

Further herein, the term 'plate' when applied to a light guide as in a 'plate light guide' is defined as a piece-wise or differentially planar layer or sheet, which is sometimes referred to as a 'slab' guide. In particular, a plate light guide is defined as a light guide configured to guide light in two substantially orthogonal directions bounded by a top surface and a bottom surface (i.e., opposite surfaces) of the light guide. Further, by definition herein, the top and bottom surfaces are both separated from one another and may be substantially parallel to one another in at least a differential sense. That is, within any differentially small section of the plate light guide, the top and bottom surfaces are substantially parallel or co-planar.

Herein, a 'diffraction grating' is generally defined as a plurality of features (i.e., diffractive features) arranged to provide diffraction of light incident on the diffraction grating. In some examples, the plurality of features may be arranged in a periodic or quasi-periodic manner. For example, the diffraction grating may include a plurality of features (e.g., a plurality of grooves or ridges in a material surface) arranged in a one-dimensional (1D) array. In other examples, the diffraction grating may be a two-dimensional (2D) array of features. The diffraction grating may be a 2D array of bumps on or holes in a material surface, for example.

By definition herein, a 'multibeam element' is a structure or element of a backlight or a display that produces light that includes a plurality of light beams. In some embodiments, the multibeam element may be optically coupled to a light guide of a backlight to provide the light beams by coupling out a portion of light guided in the light guide. In other embodiments, the multibeam element may generate light emitted as the light beams (e.g., may comprise a light source). Further, the light beams of the plurality of light beams produced by a multibeam element have different principal angular directions from one another, by definition herein. In particular, by definition, a light beam of the plurality has a predetermined principal angular direction that is different from another light beam of the light beam plurality. Furthermore, the light beam plurality may represent a light field. For example, the light beam plurality may be confined to a substantially conical region of space or have a predetermined angular spread that includes the different principal angular directions of the light beams in the light beam plurality. As such, the predetermined angular spread of the light beams in combination (i.e., the light beam plurality) may represent the light field. According to various embodiments, the different principal angular directions of the various light beams are determined by a characteristic including, but not limited to, a size (e.g., length, width, area, etc.) of the multibeam element. In some embodiments, the multibeam element may be considered an 'extended point light source', i.e., a plurality of point light sources distributed across an extent of the multibeam element, by definition herein. Further, a light beam produced by the multibeam element has a principal angular direction given by angular components {0, $}, by definition herein, and as described above with respect to FIG. 1B.

According to some embodiments of the principles described herein, a multiview backlight is provided. FIG. 3A illustrates a cross sectional view of a multiview backlight 100 in an example, according to an embodiment consistent with the principles described herein. FIG. 3B illustrates a plan view of a multiview backlight 100 in an example, according to an embodiment consistent with the principles described herein. FIG. 3C illustrates a perspective view of a multiview backlight 100 in an example, according to an embodiment consistent with the principles described herein. The perspective view in FIG. 3C is illustrated with a partial cut-away to facilitate discussion herein only. The multiview backlight 100 illustrated in FIGS. 3A-3C is configured to provide a plurality of coupled-out light beams 102 having different principal angular directions from one another (e.g., as a light field). In particular, the provided plurality of coupled-out light beams 102 are directed away from the multiview backlight 100 in different principal angular directions corresponding to respective view directions of a multiview display, according to various embodiments. In some embodiments, the coupled-out light beams 102 may be modulated (e.g., using light valves, as described below) to facilitate the display of information having 3D content.

As illustrated in FIGS. 3A-3C, the multiview backlight 100 comprises a light guide 110. The light guide 110 may be a plate light guide 110, according to some embodiments. The light guide 110 is configured to guide light along a length of the light guide 110 as guided light 104. For example, the light guide 110 may include a dielectric material configured as an optical waveguide. The dielectric material may have a first refractive index that is greater than a second refractive index of a medium surrounding the dielectric optical waveguide. The difference in refractive indices is configured to facilitate total internal reflection of the guided light 104 according to one or more guided modes of the light guide 110, for example.

In accordance with some embodiments of the principles described herein, a multiview display is provided. The multiview display is configured to emit modulated light beams as pixels of the multiview display. Further, the emitted modulated light beams may be preferentially directed toward a plurality of viewing directions of the multiview display. In some examples, the multiview display is configured to provide or 'display' a 3D or multiview image. Different ones of the modulated, differently directed light beams may correspond to individual pixels of different 'views' associated with the multiview image, according to various examples. The different views may provide a 'glasses free' (e.g., autostereoscopic) representation of information in the multiview image being displayed by the multiview display, for example.

In accordance with other embodiments of the principles described herein, a method of multiview backlight operation is provided. FIG. 8 illustrates a flow chart of a method 300 of multiview backlight operation in an example, according to an embodiment consistent with the principles described herein. As illustrated in FIG. 8, the method 300 of multiview backlight operation comprises guiding 310 light along a length of a light guide. In some embodiments, the light may be guided 310 at a non-zero propagation angle. Further, the guided light may be collimated according to a predetermined collimation factor. According to some embodiments, the light guide may be substantially similar to the light guide 110 described above with respect to the multiview backlight 100.

## Claims
1. A multiview backlight comprising:
a light guide configured to guide light in a propagation direction along a length of the light guide; and
a plurality of multibeam elements spaced apart from one another along the light guide length, a multibeam element of the plurality of multibeam elements being configured to couple out from the light guide a portion of the guided light as a plurality of coupled-out light beams having different principal angular directions corresponding to respective different view directions of a multiview display comprising multiview pixels,
wherein a size of the multibeam element is comparable to a size of a sub-pixel in a multiview pixel of the multiview display, and
wherein an inter-element distance between a pair of multibeam elements of the plurality of multibeam elements is equal to an inter-pixel distance between a corresponding pair of multiview pixels.
2. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein a relationship between the multibeam elements of the plurality of multibeam elements and corresponding multiview pixels of the multiview display is a one-to-one relationship.
3. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein the size of the multibeam element is between fifty percent and two hundred percent of the sub-pixel size.
4. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein a shape of the multibeam element is analogous to a shape of the multiview pixel.
5. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein the multibeam element comprises a diffraction grating configured to diffractively couple out the portion of the guided light as the plurality of coupled-out light beams.
6. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein the multibeam element comprises one or both of a micro-reflective element and a micro-refractive element, the micro-reflective element being configured to reflectively couple out a portion of the guided light, the micro-refractive element being configured to refractively couple out a portion of the guided light.
7. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein the multibeam element is located one of at a first surface and at a second surface of the light guide, the multibeam element being configured to couple out the guided light portion through the first surface.
8. The multiview backlight of claim 1, further comprising a light source optically coupled to an input of the light guide, the light source being configured to provide the guided light one or both of having a non-zero propagation angle and being collimated according to a predetermined collimation factor.
9. The multiview backlight of claim 1, wherein a combination of the light guide and the plurality of multibeam elements is configured to be substantially optically transparent through the light guide in a direction orthogonal to the propagation direction of the guided light.
10. A multiview display comprising the multiview backlight of claim 1, the multiview display further comprising an array of light valves configured to modulate light beams of the coupled-out light beam plurality, a light valve of the array corresponding to the sub-pixel, a set of light valves of the array corresponding to the multiview pixel of the multiview display.
11. A multiview display comprising:
an array of multiview pixels configured to provide a plurality of different views of the multiview display, a multiview pixel comprising a plurality of sub-pixels configured to modulate a plurality of light beams; and
an array of multibeam elements, each multibeam element being configured to provide the plurality of light beams to a corresponding multiview pixel, light beams of the plurality of light beams having different principal angular directions from one another corresponding to different view directions of the different views,
wherein a size of a multibeam element of the multibeam element array is comparable to a size of a sub-pixel of the sub-pixel plurality, an inter-element distance between adjacent multibeam elements of the multibeam element array corresponds to an inter-pixel distance between adjacent multiview pixels of the multiview pixel array, and
wherein a constant inter-element distance between the multibeam elements is less than or equal to a constant inter-pixel distance between the multiview pixels.
12. The multiview display of claim 11, further comprising a light guide configured to guide light, wherein the multibeam element of the multibeam element array is configured to couple out from the light guide a portion of the guided light as the plurality of light beams provided to the corresponding multiview pixel.
13. The multiview display of claim 12, wherein the multibeam element comprises one of a diffraction grating, a micro-reflective element and a micro-refractive element optically connected to the light guide to couple out the portion of the guided light.
14. The multiview display of claim 12, further comprising a light source configured to provide the light to the light guide, the guided light having a non-zero propagation angle and being collimated according to a collimation factor to provide a predetermined angular spread of the guided light within the light guide.
15. The multiview display of claim 11, wherein the multiview pixel of the multiview pixel array comprises a set of light valves, a sub-pixel of the multiview pixel comprising a light valve of the set.
16. A method of multiview backlight operation, the method comprising:
guiding light in a propagation direction along a length of a light guide; and
coupling a portion of the guided light out of the light guide using a multibeam element to provide a plurality of coupled-out light beams having different principal angular directions corresponding to respective different view directions of a multiview display,
wherein a size of the multibeam element is comparable to a size of a sub-pixel in a multiview pixel of the multiview display, and
wherein an inter-element distance between a pair of multibeam elements of the plurality of multibeam elements is equal to an inter-pixel distance between a corresponding pair of multiview pixels.
17. The method of multiview backlight operation of claim 16, wherein the multibeam element comprises a diffraction grating optically coupled to the light guide to diffractively couple out the guided light portion.
18. The method of multiview backlight operation of claim 16, further comprising modulating the coupled-out light beams using a plurality of light valves configured as the multiview pixel, a light valve of the light valve plurality corresponding to the sub-pixel of the multiview pixel.